# Adding Examples

eXamples makes it easy to add examples to any existing function call. It also provides flexibility in where you define, and you utilize examples.

## Decorator Usage

The most straight forward way to add examples is via the `@example` decorator. A decorator would be added above a function definition for each example
you wish to add. This is the recommended approach for simple APIs and/or APIs with only a few examples.

```python3
from examples import example

@example(1, number_2=1)
@example(1, 2, _example_returns=3)
def add(number_1: int, number_2: int):
    return number_1 + number_2
```

Every positional and keyword argument passed into the decorator represents the same passed into the function.
Except, for the following magic parameters (all prefixed with `_example_`):

- *_example_returns*: The exact result you expect the example to return.
- *_example_raises*: An exception you expect the example to raise (can't be combined with above)
- *_example_doc_string*: If True example is added to the functions docstring.

See the [API reference documentation](https://timothycrosley.github.io/examples/reference/examples/api/#example) for a complete definition.

!!! tip
    Examples save the bare minimum information when attached to a function, adding very low overhead.
    The next approach does provide a no-overhead alternative, but generally overhead shouldn't need to be the primary consideration. You can also combine the two approaches as needed, both for the same or different functions.

## Separate Example Registration

Alternatively, if you have a lot of examples, you can store the examples in a separate module. This can allow you
to harness the power of eXamples while keeping your implementation code clean and uncluttered.
As long as you test your examples, you still won't have to worry about them ever becoming out of sync with your
implementation code.

To do this, you can utilize the `examples.add_example_to` function, to add examples to a function:

```python3
# implementation.py


def multiply(number_1: int, number_2: int):
    return number_1 * number_2
```

```python3
# implementation_examples.py

from examples import add_examples_to

from .implementation import multiply

multiply_example = add_example_to(multiply)
multiply_example(2, 2, _example_returns=4)
multiply_example(1, 1)

# OR

add_example_to(multiply)(2, 2, _example_returns=4)
add_example_to(multiply)(1, 1)

# Optionally, you can even name and make these examples importable!

multiply_2_by_2 = add_example_to(multiply)(2, 2, _example_returns=4)
```

`add_example_to` returns a function that takes the same arguments as the `@example` decorator used above.
See the [API reference documentation](https://timothycrosley.github.io/examples/reference/examples/api/#add_example_to) for a complete definition.

!!! warning
    When using this approach, it's important to remember that examples won't get added if the example module is never imported.
    This can be overcome with documentation and/or strategically importing the examples elsewhere in your code, such as `__init__.py`.
    On the other hand, this fact can be utilized to incur the overhead of examples only when running in a development environment.

## Custom Registry

By default `eXamples` creates example registries on-demand per a module that contains functions with examples.
If you need more fine-tuned control over the registration or usage of examples, you can create and reuse your own example registry.

```
from examples import Examples

my_examples = Examples()

@my_examples.example(argument_1="value")
def my_function(argument_1):
    return argument_1
```
